# Client-Server-Development
## How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?
The most straightforward way to develop maintainable, readable, and adaptable code is to use comments to explain the purpose behind the code. In doing this, myself or other developers can use the code in other projects and be able to tweak it as necessary to fit the needs of that project. This can also be achieved using encapsulation so that the code can be reused easily for other projects. Looking back at this project, it was extremely beneficial for me to reuse the code that I developed in Project One. By resuing this code, I saved time and effort on Project Two, which in the real world could be the difference in meeting a deadline or not. In the future, I can use my CRUD module for any project which uses an interface with an instance of MongoDB. 
## How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?
Personally, I approach any problem with analysis of each portion of the code. For this project, I would work on each part in sections, so that I made sure each requirement was met. I actually printed off the requirements from Grazioso Salvare and checked off each aspect as I finished it. As I worked through each requirement, I would first attempt to succesfully create functionality of the code, then I would make small edits to enhance the already functional code. My approach to this project did not differ much from previous courses, as I have always worked in segments and focused on succesfully implementing each requirement before applying code to enhance the visual. This project did teach me how to use MongoDB and create queries to work with a CRUD module and ultimately iterate through a database. I really enjoyed this course and the projects because I felt like I really developed something that was functional and could be used in the real world. 
## What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?
Computer scientists do everything from building technology, to software security, to web development. The main responsibility of a computer scientist is to design, develop, and analyze components to problem solve and optimize how businesses and consumers use technology. Computer science has been integrated into almost every aspect of our lives nowadays, so it is important to have computer scientists who can continue to improve the world. The Animal Shelter Database developed for Grazioso Salvare allows the employees to easily navigate a page and sort through the database to quickly find information that they need. This project provides an organized visual for Grazioso Salvare to help run their business. 
